hi I'm Jennifer Sorensen I'm a
registered nurse in our education
department at Sarasota Memorial Hospital
Sarasota Memorial Hospital is adapting
masking guidelines to care for our
patients and protect our employees as
well as the community as many of you in
the community are choosing to wear masks
we want to ensure that you are wearing
them properly here are some important
tips while wearing your mask never touch
the outside of your mask while your mask
is on your face the mask on the outside
is considered dirty don't pull your mask
below your chin while you're wearing it
and have it sitting down here it should
always be fitting properly on your face
third thing you don't want to have the
mask dangling you don't want it sitting
like this all of these are gonna create
opportunities for cross contamination of
yourself or other surfaces I want to
cover a few simple steps to keep
yourself and others safe while wearing
your mask when you first go ahead and
pull out a mask we want to make sure we
identify which side of the mask is the
outside of the mask because the outside
of the mask again is dirty here at the
hospital we're marking the outside of
the mask with our initials for you at
home
you may choose to do the same or you
could put something like a star some
type of mark identifying that that's the
outside of your mask as you can see it's
the same color on both sides so that's
gonna identify that that's the outside
of our mask the second thing whenever
we're taking our mask off we want to
make sure it's put into some clean type
of area we want to store it in a clean
area here at the hospital we're using a
paper bag at home you could use a paper
bag as well or you might choose to use
something like a ziplock baggie what we
don't want to do is put it in an area
that's not clean an area that's not
clean would be something like our purse
or our pocket so I am going to go ahead
and put my mask on so to put my mask on
I want to pull it down make sure it's
covering under my chin make sure it's
covering my nose
and make sure it's on nice and secure so
again I'm not gonna touch the outside
I'm not gonna pull it below my chin okay
I need to now remove my mask for
whatever reason first thing I'm gonna do
is clean my hands so I'm gonna perform
hand hygiene I can do that with soap and
water or cam sanitizer when I remove my
mask I'm gonna do that from a clean area
so I'm gonna remove my mask from the ear
loops
I want to inspect this mask to make sure
I can reuse it so has my mask been
compromised at all is it wet is it
visibly soiled if it is I want to go
ahead and I want to throw it away I
would then go ahead and perform hand
hygiene wash my hands with soap and
water or again using my hand sanitizer
if it's okay to reuse I'm gonna go ahead
and I'm gonna fold over my mask I'm
gonna fold it in half and folding it so
the outside surfaces are touching each
other and I'm gonna place it carefully
into my clean storage if it's a paper
bag I want to seal it over so fold it
over if it's a ziplock bag I would go
ahead and steal my ziploc bag perform
hand hygiene because I still touched
probably some edge of on my mask that
was potentially dirty and now it's in a
nice clean area to reapply my mask okay
so to reapply
I would probably wash my hands first
perform that hand hygiene open up my bag
when I first go to grasp it I want to
grasp it from the ear loops I want to
look to find where is the outside of my
mask where are those initials where's
that mark because that's the outside
putting it on by the ear loops okay and
trying to use the ear loops to kind of
get it tucked under my chin and then
you're gonna kind of need to secure it
to your face so you are touching
the outside of the mask for a second so
then again I'm going to perform hand
hygiene wash my hands with soap and
water or again use my hand sanitizer and
I'm ready to go for the employees at the
hospital at the end of your shift
at the end of the day you would remove
your mask and you're going to throw it
away at the end of your shift those are
our tips for ensuring that you're
utilizing proper masking guidelines
thank you so much stay safe and stay
healthy